README.md, before:

# Poisot Lab Manuscript Template

This template is a way to make writing academic papers using `pandoc` and
`markdown` simple.

To compile in draft mode, use `make`; to compile in preprint mode, use `make
TYPE=preprint`. That's it.

## Is it standard markdown?

Almost. There are two differences:

1. You *need to* use `!{figure.id}`, on a single line, to determine where the figure will appear
2. You *can* use `@id` in *CriticMarkup* to identify who wrote the comment

## What do you get?

- `critic.sh` -- a shell script that will transform *CriticMarkup* into the commands used by LaTeX `trackchanges.sty`
- `figures.py` -- a python script to deal with figures
- `Makefile` -- just type `make`, boom, PDF
- `plmt.tex` -- the LaTeX template
- `trackchanges.sty` -- the LaTeX style file for track changes (released under the *GPL v2.0*!)
- `refs.bib` and `vancouver-author-year.csl`, files for the example references
- `ms.md` -- a template manuscript
- `ms.pdf` -- an example manuscript

## What do you need?

- `pandoc` (> 1.13, if not the arrays in `YAML` won't render)
- a (relatively well furnished) LaTeX distribution
- `perl`
- `python` and the `yaml` package
- `make`
- an idea for a manuscript

## Known bugs

- There may be issues when several annotated sentences are on the same line

## Plans

- do something with tables

## Unknown bugs

Oh boy.

Commit message:

Note on workarounds for legacy environments
Also reverses ordering of 'known bugs' and 'plans' sections.

Note the placeholder for info on the os version(s) where the curent
configuration is known good.

README.md, after:

# Poisot Lab Manuscript Template

This template is a way to make writing academic papers using `pandoc` and
`markdown` simple.

To compile in draft mode, use `make`; to compile in preprint mode, use `make
TYPE=preprint`. That's it.

## Is it standard markdown?

Almost. There are two differences:

1. You *need to* use `!{figure.id}`, on a single line, to determine where the figure will appear
2. You *can* use `@id` in *CriticMarkup* to identify who wrote the comment

## What do you get?

- `critic.sh` -- a shell script that will transform *CriticMarkup* into the commands used by LaTeX `trackchanges.sty`
- `figures.py` -- a python script to deal with figures
- `Makefile` -- just type `make`, boom, PDF
- `plmt.tex` -- the LaTeX template
- `trackchanges.sty` -- the LaTeX style file for track changes (released under the *GPL v2.0*!)
- `refs.bib` and `vancouver-author-year.csl`, files for the example references
- `ms.md` -- a template manuscript
- `ms.pdf` -- an example manuscript

## What do you need?

- `pandoc` (> 1.13, if not the arrays in `YAML` won't render)
- a (relatively well furnished) LaTeX distribution
- `perl`
- `python` and the `yaml` package
- `make`
- an idea for a manuscript



## Plans

- do something with tables

## Known bugs

- There may be issues when several annotated sentences are on the same line

### Older computing environments

The LaTeX templates and Makefile underlying this template were developed and tested with [os versions].
Using older computing environments may cause issues, but a workaround may be possible. For example:

* workaround for OS X 10.6.8, TeXLive 2013 [in this fork](https://github.com/ashander/PLMT) (for issues due to `grep` in Makefile and `twocolumn` in LaTeX template)

## Unknown bugs

Oh boy.
